ARTICLE I
Purpose of Business
Section 1.
Unit Ownership:
The property, located in the Borough of Brooklyn, County of Kings, City and State of New York, more particularly located at 555 Washington Avenue, Brooklyn, New York, (hereinafter called the "Property") has been submitted pursuant to the provisions of Article 9-B of the Real Property Law of the State of New York by the Declaration recorded in the Kings County office of the Register of the City of New York, simultaneously herewith. The Condominium thereby created shall hereinafter be known as the CATHEDRAL CONDOMINIUMS.
Section 2.
Applicability of By-Laws:
The provisions of these By-Laws are applicable to the property of the Condominium and to the use and occupancy thereof. The term "Property" as used herein shall include the land, the building and all other improvements thereon (including the Units, and Common Elements), owned in fee simple absolute, and all easements, rights and appurtenances belonging thereto, and all other property, personal or mixed, intended for use in connection therewith, all of which are intended to be submitted to the provisions of said Article 9-B of the Real Property Law of the State of New York. The Condominium Units are hereinafter sometimes referred to as "Unit" or "Units".
Section 3.
Application:
All present and future owners, mortgagees, lessees and occupants of Units and their employees, and any other persons who may use the facilities of the Property in any manner are subject to these By-Laws, the Declaration and the Rules and Regulations attached hereto as Schedule A.
The acceptance of a deed or conveyance or the entering into of a lease for a Unit or the act of occupancy of a Unit shall constitute an agreement that these By-Laws, the Rules and Regulations and the provisions of the Declaration, as they may be amended from time to time, are accepted, ratified, and will be complied with.
Section 4.
Office:
The office of the Condominium and of the Condominium Board shall be located at the Property.
ARTICLE II
Meetings of Unit Owner
Section 1.
Annual Meeting:
The Annual Meeting of the Unit Owners of the Condominium, for the election of the Condominium Board and for such other business as may properly come before such meeting, shall be held in the Borough of Brooklyn, City of New York, at such time and place, each year as may be designated by the Board. The notice of the meeting shall be in writing and signed by the President
a Vice President or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. Such notice shall state the time when and the place within the state where it is to be held, and the Secretary shall cause a copy thereof to be delivered personally or mailed to each Unit Owner of record of the Condominium entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten (10) nor more than forty (40) days before the meeting. If mailed, it shall be directed to each such Unit Owner at his or her address as it appears in the records of the Condominium, unless he or she shall have filed with the Secretary of the Condominium a written request that notices intended for him or her be mailed to some other address, in which case it shall be mailed to the address designated in such request.
Section 2.
Special Meetings:
Special meetings of the Unit Owners, other than those the calling of which is regulated by statute, may be called at any time by the President or Secretary or by a majority of the Condominium Board. It shall also be the duty of the Secretary to call such meetings whenever requested in writing so to do by Unit Owners owning at least thirty (30%) percent of the Common Interest of the Condominium. The Secretary shall cause a notice of such Special Meeting stating the time, place and object thereof and the officer or other person or persons by whom the meeting is called, to be delivered personally or mailed as provided in Section 1 of this Article to each Unit Owner of record of the Condominium entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten (10) nor more than forty (40) days before such meeting. No business other than that stated in such notice shall be transacted at such Special Meeting unless the owners of all the Units of the Comdominium be present thereat in person or by proxy. Except that there shall be a meeting commenced within sixty (60) days after the closing of the first Unit to be sold to elect a Condominium Board.
Section 3.
Waiver of Notices:
The notice provided for in the two foregoing sections is not indispensable, but any Unit Owners' meeting whatever shall be valid for all purposes if all the Unit Owners of the Condominium are represented thereat in person or by proxy, or if a quorum is present, as provided in the next succeeding section, and waiver of notice of the time, place and objects of such meeting shall be duly executed in writing either before or after said meeting by such Unit Owners as are not so represented and were not given such notice.
Section 4.
Quorum:
At each meeting of Unit Owners, except where otherwise provided by law, Unit Owners representing, in person or by proxy, fifty-one (51%) percent of the Units shall constitute a quorum; in case a quorum shall not be present at any meeting, the holders of a majority of the Units represented may adjourn the meeting to some future time and place. No notice of the time. and place of the adjourned meeting need be given other than by announcement at the meeting. Only those Unit Owners who, if present at the original meeting, would have been entitled to vote thereat, shall be entitled to vote at any such adjourned meeting.
Section 5.
Voting:
At each meeting of Unit Owners, each Unit Owner present in person or by proxy shall be entitled to cast the votes
apurtenant to his or her Unit at the time of service of notice of such meeting or at such prior date, not more than forty (40) days before such meeting, as may be prescribed by the Condominium Board as the date for determining which Unit Owners of record are entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting. The proxies shall be in writing duly signed by the Unit Owner but need not be acknowledged or witnessed, and the person named as proxy by any Unit Owner need not himself or herself be a Unit Owner of the Condominium. Voting by Unit Owners shall be viva voce unless any Unit Owner present at the meeting, in person or by proxy, demands a vote by written ballot, in which case the voting shall be by ballot, and each ballot shall state the name of the Unit Owner voting and the number of votes appurtenant to his or her Unit, and in addition, the name of the proxy of such ballot if cast by a proxy. period of two (2) years, or so long as the Sponsor, its successor, offerors or designees continue to own among them fifty (50%) percent or more of the Units of the Condominium, they shall have the right to designate four (4) of the seven (7) Directors (see Article III, Section 1).
Section 6.
Title to Units:
For a
Title to Units may be taken in the name of an individual or in the names of two (2) or more persons, as tenants in common or as joint tenants or as tenants by the entirety or in the name of a corporation, partnership, or in the name of a fiduciary, trust, estate, unincorporated association, syndicate, joint venture, organization, government or any department or agency thereof, or any other entity. The term "Unit Owner" as used in these By-Laws shall include any person, group of persons, association or entity taking title as set forth in this section. The above shall not constitute consent or condonation of any activity not permitted under existing Certificate of Occupancy or legal use, zoning requirements or other applicable law or regulation.
Section 7.
Number of Votes:
Any or all of such Owners (including the Sponsor or Sponsor- designee, if the Sponsor or its designee shall then own one or more Units) shall be entitled to cast one vote for each Unit
or Units owned by them on all matters put to the vote at all meetings of Unit Owners; except that, when voting for the election of members of the Condominium Board, each Unit Owner: (i) shall be entitled to one vote for his or her Unit per member to be elected, and (ii) shall not have the right to cumulate his or her votes in favor of any one or more members to be elected. If Units are owned by more than one person as joint tenants, tenants by the entirety or as tenants in common or by a partnership, corporation or other entity, the persons owning said Unit shall agree among themselves and cast the votes for their Unit as a single vote. A fiduciary shall be the voting member with respect to any Unit in a fiduciary capacity. Any Unit or Units owned by the Condominium Board or its designee shall not be entitled to vote.
Section 8.
Majority of Unit Owners:
As used in these By-Laws, the term "Majority of Unit Owners" shall mean those Unit Owners having greater than fifty (50%) percent of the total authorized votes of all Unit Owners present in person or by proxy and voting at any meeting of the Unit Owners, determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 of this Article II. Two thirds of Unit Owners shall mean those Unit Owners having greater than sixty-seven (67%) percent of the total of all Unit Owners present in person or by proxy and voting at any meeting of the Unit Owners and/or approxies amendments to these By-Laws in accordance with Article XI Section 1 of these By-Laws.
Section 9.
Inspectors of Election:
Inspectors of election shall not be required to be appointed at any meeting of Unit Owners unless requested by a Unit Owner present (in person or by proxy) and entitled to vote at such meeting and upon the making of such request inspectors shall be appointed or elected as provided in Section 610 of the Business Corporation Law.
Section 10. Order of Business:
So far as is consistent with the purpose of the meeting, the order of business of each meeting of Unit Owners shall be as follows:
1. Call to order.
2. Presentation of proofs of due calling of the meeting.
3. Roll call and presentation and examination of proxies.
4. Reading of minutes of previous meeting or meetings, unless waived.
5. Reports of officers and committees.
6. Appointment or election of inspectors of election, if requested.
7. If the Annual Meeting or Special Meeting called for that purpose, the election of Directors.
Unfinished business.
8.
9. New business.
10. Adjournment.
ARTICLE III
Officers
Section 1.
Designation:
The principal officers of the Condominium shall be the President, the Vice President, the Secretary and the Treasurer, all of whom shall be elected by the Condominium Board. The Condominium Board may appoint an Assistant Treasurer, an Assistant Secretary, and such other officers as in its judgment may be necessary. The President and Vice President, but no other officers, need be members of the Condominium Board.
Section 2.
Election of Officers:
The officers of the Condominium shall be elected annually by the- Condominium Board at the organization meeting of each new Condominium Board and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Condominium Board and until their successors are elected, their resignation or death.
Section 3.
Removal of Officers:
Upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Condominium Board, any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, and his or her successor may be elected at any regular meeting of the Condominium Board, or at any special meeting of the Condominium Board called for such purpose.
Section 4.
President:
The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Condominium. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the Unit Owners and of the Condominium Board. He or she shall have all of the general powers and duties which are incident to the office of President of a stock corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, including but not limited to the power to appoint committees from among the Unit Owners from time to time as he or she may in his or her discretion decide is appropriate to assist in the conduct of the affairs of the Condominium.
Section 5.
Vice-President:
The Vice-President shall take the place of the President and perform his or her duties whenever the President shall be absent or unable to act. If neither the President nor the Vice-President is able to act, the Condominium Board shall
appoint some other member of the Condominium Board to act in the place of the President, on an interim basis. The Vice-President shall also perform such other duties as shall from time to time be imposed upon him or her by the Condominium Board or by the President.
Section 6.
Secretary:
The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Unit Owners and of the Condominium Board; he or she shall have charge of such books and papers as the Condominium Board may direct; and shall in general perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary of a stock corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York.
Section 7.
Treasurer:
The Treasurer shall have the responsibility for Condominium funds and securities and shall be responsible for keeping full and accurate financial records and books of account showing all receipts and disbursements and for the preparation of all required financial data. He or she shall be responsible for the deposit of all moneys and other valuable effects in the name of the Condominium Board or the Managing Agent, if any, in such depositories as may from time to time be designated by the Condominium Board, and shall, in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer of a stock corporation organized under the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York.
Section 8.
Agreements, Contracts, Deeds, Checks, Etc.:
All agreements, contracts, deeds, leases, checks and other instruments of the Condominium shall be executed by any two (2) officers of the Condominium or by such other person or persons as may be designated by the Condominium Board.
Section 9.
Compensation of Officers:
No officer shall receive any salary or other compensation from the Condominium for acting as such or for services rendered in an official capacity.
Section 10. Liability of Officers:
No officer shall be liable to the Unit Owners for any mistake of judgment, negligence, or otherwise, except for willful misconduct or bad faith. The Unit Owners shall severally indemnify each officer against any liability or claims except those arising out of the bad faith or willful misconduct of an officer. It is intended that each officer shall have no personal liability with respect to any contract made by him or her on behalf of the Condominium. It is and shall be permissible for each officer who is appointed by the original Condominium Board (designees of the Sponsor), to contract with the Sponsor and affiliated corporations without fear of being charged with self-dealing. It is also intended that the liability of any Unit Owner arising out of any contract made by an officer or out of the aforesaid indemnity in favor of each officer shall be limited to such proportion of the total liability thereunder as his or her interest in the Common Elements bears to the aggregate interest in the Common Elements of all the Unit Owners. Every agreement made by an officer on behalf of the Condominium shall provide that each officer is acting only as agent for the Unit Owners and shall have no personal liability thereunder (except as Unit Owners, except for willful misconduct or bad faith), and that each Unit Owner's liability thereunder shall be limited to such proportion of the total liability thereunder as his interest in the Common Elements bears to the aggregate interest in the Common Elements of all Unit Owners.
ARTICLE IV
Managers
Section 1.
Number:
The number of Directors of the Condominium Board shall be not less than four (4) nor more than seven (7), as may from time to time be herein provided and, in the absence of such provision, shall be seven (7). Commencing with the first election of Directors by Unit Owners of the Condominium, and until changed by amendment of this By-Law provision, as hereinafter provided, the number of Directors shall be seven (7). The number of Directors shall not be decreased to a number less than the number of Directors then in office except at any Annual Meeting of Unit Owners. However, during the period the Sponsor, its successor offeror(s) or designee(s) continue to own fifty (50%) percent or more of the Condominium Units, the number of Directors shall remain fixed at seven (7).
Section 2.
Powers and Duties:
The Condominium Board shall have the powers and duties necessary for the administration of the affairs of the Condominium, as agent of all Unit Owners and may do all such acts and things, except as prohibited by law or by the Declaration or by these By-Laws may not be delegated to the Condominium Board, which shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
a. Contracting for the necessary services for operation, care, upkeep and maintenance of the Common Elements.
b. Determination of the Common Charges required for the affairs of the Condominium, including, without limitation, the operation and maintenance of the property.
c. Collection of the Common Charges and expenses of the Condominium from the Unit Owners.
d. Employment and dismissal of the personnel necessary for the maintenance and operation of the Common Elements.
e. Adoption and amendment of rules and regulations covering the details of the operation and use of the property subject to a right of the Unit Owners to overrule the Board (see Article VI, Section 16).
f. Opening of bank accounts on behalf of the Condominium and designating the signatories required therefore.
g. Purchasing or leasing or otherwise acquiring in the name of the Condominium Board, or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all Unit Owners, Units offered for sale or lease or surrendered by their Owners to the Condominium Board.
h. Purchasing of Units at foreclosure or other judicial sales in the name of the Condominium Board, or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all Unit Owners.
i. Acquiring in the name of the Condominium Board, or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all Unit Owners, rights and interests in real and personal property for use in connection with the ownership and operation of the property as a Condominium, as described in the Declaration and these By-Laws.
j. Selling, leasing, mortgaging (but not voting the votes appurtenant to), or otherwise dealing with Units acquired by, and subleasing Units leased by the Condominium Board or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all Unit Owners.
k. Organizing corporations to act as designees of the Condominium Board in acquiring title to or leasing of Units on behalf of all Unit Owners.
l. Obtaining and reviewing of insurance for the Property, including the Units, pursuant to the provisions of Article VI, Section 2 hereof.
m. Making of repairs, additions and improvements to or alterations of the Property and repairs to and restoration of the Property in accordanace with the other provisions of these By-Laws, after damage or destruction by fire or other casualty, or as a result of condemnation or eminent domain proceedings.
n. Negotiation and settlement of all claims and actions relating to the Condominium.
o. Borrowing money on behalf of the Condominium when required in connection with the operation, care, upkeep and maintenance of the Common Elements, provided, however, that (i) the consent of a majority of all Unit Owners shall be required for the borrowing of any sum in excess of $50,000.00 and (ii) no lien to secure repayment of any sum borrowed may be created on any Unit or its appurtenant interest in the Common Elements without the written consent of the Unit Owners.
p. If any sum borrowed by the Condominium Board on behalf of the Condominum pursuant to the authority contained in this paragraph is not repaid by the Board, a Unit Owner who pays to the creditor such proportion thereof as his or her interest in the Common Elements bears to the interest of all the Unit Owners in the Common Elements shall be entitled to obtain from the creditor a release of any judgment or other lien which said creditor shall have filed or shall have the right to file against the Unit Owner's Unit.
o. Levying fines against Unit Owners for violations of the Rules and Regulations governing the operation and use of the property.
q. With written ratification of Unit Owners, the Board may undertake to commence proceedings to reduce real estate taxes on the Units.
Section 3.
Election:
The Directors shall be elected at the Annual Meeting of Unit Owners or at a Special Meeting called for that purpose as provided by law, by the highest number of votes cast for Directors at such meeting. Their term of office shall be until their respective successors are elected and qualify. A meeting to elect a new Condominium Board shall be held within sixty (60) days of fifty-one (51%) percent of the Condominium Units being sold or sixty (60) days of the second (2nd) anniversary of the Closing Date, whichever is sooner.
Section 4.
Quorum:
A majority of the Directors then authorized by these By-Laws shall constitute a quorum.
Section 5.
Vacancies:
Vacancies in the Condominium Board resulting from death, resignation or otherwise may be filled without notice to any of the Unit Owners by a vote of a majority of the remaining Directors present at the meeting at which such election is held even though no quorum is present, which may be at any regular meeting of the Condominium Board or any special meeting thereof called for such purpose. In the event of the failure to hold any election of Directors at the time designated for the annual election of Directors or in the event that the Condominium Board shall not have filled any such vacancy, a special meeting of Unit Owners to elect a new Condominium Board or fill such vacancy by an amendment of these By-Laws shall be filled in the manner provided in the resolution adopting such amendment. case of a reduction of the authorized number of Directors by amendment of these By-Laws, the Directors, if any, whose term of office shall cease, shall be determined in the manner provided in the resolution adopting such amendment.
Section 6.
Meetings:
The Condominium Board shall meet immediately after the Annual Meeting of Unit Owners without notice and also whenever called together by any Director of the Condominium or upon the written request of any three (3) Directors then holding office, upon notice given to each Director, by delivering personally, mailing or telegraphing the same to him or her at least two (2) days prior to such meeting at the last address furnished by him or her to the Condominium. Regular meetings may be held without notice at such times and places as the Condominium Board may determine. Any meeting of the Directors at which all the members shall be present, or of which notice shall be duly waived by all absentees, either before or after the holding of such meeting, shall be valid for all purposes provided a quorum be present. Meetings of Directors may be held either at the principal office of the Condominium or elsewhere within the State of New York as provided in the notice calling the meeting, unless the Condominium Board by resolution adopt some further limitation in regard thereto. At all meetings of the Condominium Board, each Director shall be entitled to one (1) vote. The vote of a majority of the Condominium Board present at the time of a vote of a duly constituted meeting shall be the act of the Condominium Board.
Section 7.
Resignation and Removal:
Any Director may resign at any time by written notice delivered in person or sent by certified registered mail to the President or Secretary of the Condominium. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless specifically requested, acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Any Director may be removed from office at any time with or without cause upon the affirmative vote of the Unit Owners whose aggregate vote is at least fifty-one (51%) percent of the votes of the Condominium, at a Unit Owner's meeting duly called for the purpose; provided, however, that the Director(s) elected by the Owners of "Unsold Units" can be removed only for cause by vote of a majority of the Unit Owners or without cause by the Holders of Unsold Units.
Section 8.
Annual Cash Requirements:
The Condominium Board shall, from time to time, determine the cash requirements as defined in the Condominium's By-Laws, and fix the terms and manner of payment of Common Charges. The Condominium Board shall have discretionary power to prescribe the manner of maintaining and operating the building, to be paid as aforesaid by the Unit Owners. Every such determination by the Condominium Board shall be final and conclusive as to all Unit Owners and any expenditures made by the Condominium's officers or its agent under the Condominium Board or with the approval of the Condominium Board of the Condominium shall, as against the Unit Owners, be deemed necessarily and properly made for such purpose.
Until the earlier of (i) the second (2nd) anniversary of the first closing, or (ii) such time as the Holders of Unsold Units hold less than fifty (50%) percent of the outstanding Units, the Condominium Board of the Condominium will not take any of the following actions unless Unit Owners owning at least fifty-one (51%) percent of the Common Interest of the Condominium approve in writing or by vote, in person or by proxy, at a duly constituted meeting called for such purpose:
(i) Increase the number or change the type of employees from that described in the notes to Schedule B;
(ii) Provide for new or additional services from those indicated in the notes to Schedule B, unless the annual cost of such new or additional services, when added to the annual cost of all other services, being provided, is no greater than that provided in said notes;
(iii) Impose any rent, Common Charges, assessment or other charge (regular or special) against Unit Owners for the purpose of making any capital or major improvement or addition, unless required by law; or
(iv) Establish any reserves in addition to the Working Capital Fund, including a reserve for contingencies, repairs, improvements or replacements, other than a twelve (12) month reserve for contingencies not exceeding five (5%) percent of the budgeted operating expenses (exclusive of mortgage debt service) for the ensuing twelve (12) months of condominium operation.
However, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Sponsor, as Holder of Unsold Units, or other Holder(s) of Unsold Units, shall not veto the expenses set forth in Schedule B, or expenditures required to comply with applicable laws or regulations.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Condominium may take any of the actions enumerated in clauses (i) through (iv) above, if the cost of such actions, when added to all other budgeted expenses of the Condominium (excluding debt service), shall not result in increasing the Common Charges for any year of operation by more than five (5%) percent from the previous year's Common Charges.
Section 9.
Rules and Regulations:
The Condominium Board may from time to time adopt and amend such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary in respect to the Building of the Condominium for the health, safety and convenience of the Unit Owners. Copies thereof and of changes therein shall be furnished to each Unit Owner.
Section 10.
Managing Agent and Manager:
The Condominium Board may employ for the Condominium a Managing Agent and/or a Manager at a compensation established by the Condominium Board to perform such duties and services as the Condominium Board shall authorize. The Condominium Board may delegate to the Manager or Managing Agent, all of the powers granted to the Condominium Board by these By-Laws other than the powers set forth in subdivisions (b), (e), (E), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (n), (o) and (p) of Section 2 of this Article II.
Section 11. Fidelity Bonds:
The Condominium Board shall obtain adequate fidelity bonds for all officers and employees of the Condominium handling or responsible for Condominium funds and for the Managing Agent. The premiums on such bonds shall constitute a Common Expense.
Section 12.
Compensation:
No member of the Condominium Board shall receive any compensation from the Condominium for acting as such.
Section 13. Liability of the Condominium Board:
The members of the Condominium Board shall not be liable to the Unit Owners for any mistake of judgment, negligence, or otherwise, except for their own individual willful misconduct or bad faith. The Unit Owners shall indemnify and hold harmless each of the members of the Condominium Board against all contractual liability to others arising out of contracts made by the Condominium Board on behalf of the Condominium unless any such contract shall have been made in bad faith or contrary to the provisions of the Declaration or of these By-Laws. It is intended that the members of the Condominium Board shall have no personal liability with respect to any contract made by them on behalf of the Condominium within the scope of their authority. It is understood and permissible for the original Condominium Board, who are designated by the Sponsor, to contract with the Sponsor and affiliated corporations without fear of being charged with self-dealing. It is also intended that the liability of any Unit Owner arising out of any contract made by the Condominium Board shall be limited to such proportion of the total liability thereunder as his or her interest in the Common Elements bears to the interests of all the Unit Owners in the Common Elements. Every agreement made by the Condominium Board or by the Managing Agent or by the Manager on behalf of the Condominium shall provide that the members of the Condominium Board, or the Managing Agent, or the Manager, as the case may be, are acting only as agent for the Unit Owners in the Common Elements. Every agreement made by the Condominium Board or by the Managing Agent or by the Manager on behalf of the Condominium shall provide that the members of the Condominium Board, or the Managing Agent or the Manager, as the case may be, are acting only as agent for the Unit Owners and shall have no personal liability thereunder (except as Unit Owners), and that each Unit Owner's liability thereunder shall be limited to such proportion of the total liability thereunder as his or her interest in the Common Elements bears to the interest of all Unit Owners in the Common Elements.
Section 14.
Other Committees:
The Condominium Board may, by resolution, create such other committees as it shall deem appropriate and such committees shall have such powers and authority as the Condominium Board shall vest therein. The members of any such committee, at least one of whom shall be designated by the Sponsor or a Sponsor-designee, so long as the Sponsor or Sponsor-designee has the right to designate a member of the Board, shall be appointed by the President of the Condominium. Such committee shall not have power to do any act which the Executive Committee may not do under subsections (a) - (d) of Section 2 of Article IV.
ARTICLE V
Notices
Section 1
Definitions:
Whenever under the provisions of the Declaration or of these By-Laws, notice is required to be given to the Condominium Board, any Manager, Unit Owner or mortgagee, it shall not be construed to mean personal notice; but such notice may be given in writing, by mail, by depositing the same in a post office or letter box, in a postpaid sealed wrapper, addressed to the Condominium Board, such Manager or Unit Owner or mortgagee at such address as appears on the books of the Condominium.
Section 2.
Service of Notice Waiver:
Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of the Declaration or of these By-Laws, a waiver thereof, in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed the equivalent thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Operation of the Property
Section 1.
Determination of Common Expenses and Fixing of Common Charges:
The Condominium Board shall from time to time, at least annually, prepare a budget for the Condominium, determine the amount of the Common Charges payable by the Unit Owners to meet the Common Expenses of the Condominium and allocate and assess such Common Charges among the Unit Owners according to their respective Common Interests. The Common Expenses shall include, among other things, the cost of all insurance premiums on all policies of insurance required to be or which have been obtained by the Condominium Board pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of this Article VI and the fees and disbursements of the Insurance Trustee. The Common Expenses shall also include such amounts as the Condominium Board may deem proper for the operation and maintenance of the property, including, without limitation, an amount for working capital of the Condominium for a general operating reserve, and for a reserve fund for replacements, to make up any deficit in the Common Expenses for any prior year. The Common Expenses may also include such amounts as may be required for the purchase or lease by the Condominium Board or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all Unit Owners, of any Unit whose owner has elected to sell or lease such Unit or of any Unit which is to be sold at a foreclosure or other judicial sale, together with such amounts as may be necessary to maintain such Unit(s). The Condominium Board shall also, where necessary, impose an assessment or additional Common Charge in order to meet any unanticipated Common Expense. The Condominium Board shall advise all Unit Owners, promptly, in writing, of the amount of Common Charges payable by each of them, respectively, as determined by the Condominium Board, as aforesaid, and shal1 furnish copies of each budget on which such charges are based, to all Unit Owners and to their mortgagees, if so required.
The Sponsor or Sponsor-designee shall be responsible for the Common Charges assessed against a Unit owned by it from the date of the First Unit Closing until such Unit is sold to a bona fide purchaser.
Until the earlier of (i) the second (2nd) anniversary of the Closing, or (ii) such time as the Holders of Unsold Units hold less than fifty (50%) percent of the Units, the Condominium Board will not take any of the following actions unless Unit Owners owning at least fifty-one (51%) percent of the Common Interest approve in writing or by vote, in person or by proxy, at a duly constituted meeting called for such purpose:
(i) Increase the number or change the type of employees from that described in the notes to Schedule B, "Projected Budget for First Year of Operation";
(ii) Provide for new or additional services from those indicated in the notes to Schedule B, unless the annual cost of such new or additional services, when added to the annual cost of all other services, being provided, is no greater than that provided in said notes;
(iii) Impose any rent, Common Charges, assessment or other charge (regular or special) against Unit Owners for the purpose of making any capital or major improvement or addition, unless required by law; or
(vi) Establish any reserves in addition to the Working Capital Fund as established under the Plan, including a reserve for contingencies, repairs, improvements or replacements, other than a twelve (12) month reserve for contingencies not exceeding five (5%) percent of the budgeted operating expenses (exclusive of mortgage debt service) for the ensuing twelve (12) months of Condominium operation.
However, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Sponsor, as Holder of Unsold Units, or other Holder(s) of Unsold Units, shall not veto the expenses set forth in Schedule B, entitled "Projected Budget for First Year of Operation" or expenditures required to comply with applicable laws or regulations.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Condominium Board may take any of the actions enumerated in clauses (i) through (iv) above, if the cost of such actions, when added to all other budgeted expenses of the Condominium (excluding debt service), shall not result in increasing the Common Charges for any year of operation by more than five (5%) percent from the previous year's common charges.
Section 2.
Insurance:
The Condominium Board shall be required to obtain and maintain, to the extent obtainable, the following insurance: (1) fire insurance with extended coverage, vandalism and malicious mischief endorsements, insuring the building containing the Units (including all of the Units and the fixtures initially installed therein by the Sponsor or by prior construction and any other property usual to the servicing and general occupancy, but not including furniture, furnishings, or other personal property supplied or installed by Unit Owners), together with all service machinery and equipment contained therein and covering the interests of the Condominium, the Condominium Board and all Unit Owners and their mortgagees with certificates of insurance, as their interests may appear, in an amount to be determined by the Condominium Board, but in no event to be less than eighty (80%) percent of the full replacement cost of the building, including above noted items but exclusive of footings and foundations, as approved by a fire insurance company or a qualified insurance broker; each of said policies shall contain a Condominium Property Endorsement and a New York standard mortgagee clause in favor of each mortgagee of a Unit which shall provide that the loss, if any, thereunder shall be payable to such mortgagee as its interest may appear, subject, however, to the loss payment provisions in favor of the Condominium Board and the Insurance Trustee, as herein provided; (2) worker's compensation insurance, if the Condominium has employees; (3) a fidelity bond or bonds in sufficient amounts to fully protect the interest of the Condominium, shall be carried on each member of the Condominium Board, officers of the Condominium, Managing Agent and Managers, including any person or persons handling or responsible for funds of the Condominium; (4) disability benefits insurance if the Condominium has employees; and (5) such other insurance as the Condominium Board may determine. All policies of physical damage insurance shall provide that adjustment of loss shall be made by the Condominium Board (with the approval of the Insurance Trustee, if any, if more than $50,000.00), and that the total proceeds thereof, if $50,000.00 or less, shall be payable to the Condominium Board, and if more than $50,000.00, shall be payable to the Insurance Trustee, if any.
All policies of physical damage insurance shall contain waivers of subrogation and of any reduction of pro-rata liability of the insurer as a result of any insurance carried by Unit Owners or of invalidity arising from any acts of the insured or any Unit Owners, and the individual Unit Owners as well as the Condominium shall be primary insureds to the extent as their interests shall also appear. Such policies may not be cancelled or substantially modified without at least ten (10) days prior written notice to all of the insureds, including all mortgagees of Units. Duplicate originals of all policies of physical damage insurance and of all renewals thereof, together with proof of payment of premiums, shall be delivered to all mortgagees of Units at least ten (10) days prior to expiration of the then current policies.
The Condominium Board shall also be required to obtain and maintain, to the extent obtainable, public liability insurance in such limits as the Condominium Board may from time to time determine, covering each member of the Condominium Board, the Managing Agent, the Manager and each Unit Owner. Such public liability coverage shall also cover cross liability claims of one insured against another.
Unit Owners shall not be prohibited from carrying other insurance for their own benefit, provided that all such policies shall contain waivers of subrogation and further provide that the liability of the carriers issuing insurance obtained by the Condominium Board shall not be affected or diminished by reason of any such additional insurance carried by any Unit Owner. Such policies shall be so endorsed as to state that they will in no way conflict with any insurance carried by the Condominium Board.
Section 3.
Repair or Reconstruction After Fire or Other Casualty:
In the event of damage to or destruction of the building containing the Units as a result of fire or other casualty resulting in less than seventy-five (75%) percent of the building containing the Units being destroyed or substantially damaged, the Condominium Board shall arrange for the prompt repair and restoration of the building containing the Units (including any damaged Units, and any kitchen or bathroom fixtures initially installed therein by the Sponsor, but not including any wall, ceiling or floor decorations or coverings or other furniture, furnishings, fixtures or equipment installed in the Units by the Unit Owners), and the Condominium Board or the Insurance Trustee, as the case may be, shall disburse the proceeds of all insurance policies in appropriate progress payments for distribution to the contractors engaged in such repairs and restoration. Any cost of such repair and restoration in excess of the insurance proceeds shall constitute a Common Expense and the Condominium Board may assess all the Unit Owners for such deficit as part of the Common Charges.
If seventy-five (75%) percent or more of the building containing the Units is destroyed or substantially damaged (as determined by the Condominium Board) and Unit Owners whose percentage of Common Interest totals seventy-five (75%) percent in the aggregate of the total Common Interest do not duly and promptly resolve to proceed with repair or restoration, the Property shall be subject to an action for partition at the suit of any Unit Owner or lienor, as if owned in common, in which event the net proceeds of sale together with the net proceeds of insurance policies (or if there shall have been a repair or restoration pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 3, and the amount of insurance proceeds shall have exceeded the cost of such repair or restoration, then the excess of such insurance proceeds) shall be divided by the Condominium Board or the Insurance Trustee, as the case may be, among all the Unit Owners in proportion to their respective Common Interest, after first payment out of the share of each Unit Owner the amount of any unpaid liens on his or her Unit, in the order of the priority of such liens.
Whenever in this Section the words "promptly repair" are used it shall mean repairs are to begin not more than sixty (60) days from the date the Insurance Trustee notified the Condominium Board and the Unit Owner or Unit Owners that it shall hold proceeds of insurance funds sufficient to pay the estimated costs of such work; or not more than ninety (90) days after the Insurance Trustee notified said Condominium Board and Unit Owner or Owners that such funds are insufficient to pay said estimated costs and advising them of the amount of the required completion bond, if necessary, or in the event there is no Insurance Trustee, not more than sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of insurance funds on account of such damage or destruction and wherever the words "promptly resolve" are used, it shall also mean not more than sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of said insurance funds.
Section 4.
Payment of Common Charges:
All Unit Owners shall be obligated to pay the Common Charges assessed by the Condominium Board pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article VI at such time or times as the Condominium Board shall determine.
No Unit Owner shall be liable for the payment of any part of the Common Charges assessed against his or her Unit subsequent to a sale, transfer or other conveyance by him or her (made in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of Article VIII of these By-Laws) of such Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, as defined in Section 1 of Article VIII hereof. addition, any Unit Owner may, subject to the terms and conditions specified in these By-Laws, provided that his or her Unit is free and clear of liens and encumbrances, other than permissible encumbrances and the statutory lien for unpaid Common Charges, convey his or her Unit, together with the "Appurtenant Interests" to the Condominium Board, or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of all other Unit Owners, and in such event be exempt from Common Charges thereafter assessed. A purchaser of a Unit shall be liable for the payment of Common Charges assessed and unpaid against such Unit prior to the acquisition by him or her of such Unit, except that a mortgagee or other purchaser of a Unit at a foreclosure sale of such Unit shall not be liable for and such Unit shall not be subject to a lien for the payment of Common Charges assessed prior to the foreclosure sale.
Section 5.
Collection of Common Charges and Assessments:
The Condominium Board shall assess Common Charges against the Unit Owners from time to time, at least annually, and shall take prompt action to collect any Common Charge due from any Unit Owner which remains unpaid for more than thirty (30) days from the due date for payment thereof. The Condominium Board shall also take prompt action to collect any assessment due from any Unit Owner which remains unpaid for more than thirty (30) days from the due date thereof.
Section 6.
Default in Payment of Common Charges of Assessments:
In the event of default, after notice in writing with thirty (30) days to cure, by any Unit Owner in paying to the Condominium Board the Common Charges or any assessment as determined by the Condominium Board, such Unit Owner shall be obligated to pay interest at the highest legal rate on such Common Charges or assessments from the due date thereof, together with all expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by the Condominium Board in any proceeding brought to collect such unpaid Common Charges or assessments. The Condominium Board shall have the right and duty to attempt to recover such Common Charges or assessments, together with interest thereon, and the expenses of the proceeding, including attorneys' fees, in an action to recover the same brought against such Unit Owner, or by foreclosure of the lien on such Unit granted by Section 339-z of the Real Property Law of the State of New York, in the manner provided in Section 339-aa thereof. A Unit Owner defaulting after notice in writing and thirty (30) days to cure, in payment of Common Charges or assessments shall not be permitted to vote at any regular or special meeting of Unit Owners.
Section 7.
Foreclosure of Liens for Unpaid Common Charges:
In any action brought by the Condominium Board to foreclose a lien on a Unit because of unpaid Common Charges, the Unit Owner shall be required to pay a reasonable rental for the use of his Unit and the plaintiff in such foreclosure action shall be entitled to the appointment of a receiver to collect the same. The Condominium Board, acting on behalf of all Unit Owners, shall have power to purchase such Unit at foreclosure sale and to acquire, hold, lease, mortgage (but not to vote the votes appurtenant to), convey or otherwise deal with same. A suit to recover a money judgment for unpaid Common Charges shall be maintainable without foreclosing or waiving the lien securing the same.
Section 8.
Statement of Common Charges and Assessments:
The Condominium Board shall promptly provide any Unit Owner so requesting the same in writing, with a written statement of all unpaid Commmon Charges due from such Unit Owner.
Section 9.
Abatement and Enioinment of Violations by Unit Owners: 
The violation of any rule or regulation adopted by the Condominium Board, or the breach of any By-Law contained herein, or the breach of any provision of the Declaration, shall give the Condominium Board the right, in addition to any other right set forth in these By-Laws: (a) upon reasonable notice to the Unit Owner, to enter the Unit in which, or as to which, such violation or breach exists and to summarily abate and remove, at the expense of the defaulting Unit Owner, any structure, thing or condition that may exist therein contrary to the intent and meaning of the provisions hereof (provided, however, that no prior notice shall be required in the event the Condominium Board shall determine that action is immediately necessary for the preservation or safety of the property of the Condominium or for the safety of residents of the Condominium or other persons, or required to avoid the suspension of any necessary service to the Condominium); or (b) to enjoin, abate or remedy by appropriate legal proceedings, either at law or in equity, the continuance of any such breach.
Section 10.
Maintenance and Repairs:
(a) All maintenance of and repairs to any Unit, ordinary or extraordinary, and to the doors (except painting exterior side of Unit entrance door), windows (except painting exterior side of windows), electrical (except Common Elements), plumbing (except Common Elements) and heating fixtures and air conditioning units within the Unit or belonging to the Unit Owner shall be at the Unit Owner's expense, excepting as otherwise specifically provided herein.
(b) All maintenance, repairs and replacements to the Common Elements, as defined in the Declaration, and the painting and decorating of the exterior side of Unit entrance doors and windows shall be made by the Condominium Board and be charged to all the Unit Owners as a Common Expense, excepting to the extent that the same are necessitated by the negligence, misuse or neglect of a Unit Owner, in which case such expense shall be charged to such Unit Owner. Maintenance, repair and replacements in or to the Common Elements will be performed (a) by the Condominium Board as a common expense if it involves structural or extraordinary maintenance, repairs or replacements (including, but not limited to, the repair of any leaks that are not caused by the acts or omissions of the Unit Owner, having direct and exclusive access thereto), or (b) by the Unit Owner having direct and exclusive access thereto at his sole cost and expense, if involving nonstructural ordinary maintenance, repairs or replacements, or as a result of the Unit Owner's acts or omissions.
Section 11.
Restrictions on Use of Units:
In order to provide for congenial occupancy of the property and for the protection of the values of the Units, the use of the property shall be restricted to and shall be in accordance with the following provisions:
(a) The Residential Units shall be used for private residences only, except that a Unit Owner may use his residential Unit for any home occupation use permitted under applicable zoning law and ordinances, building code or other rules and regulations of governmental authorities having jurisdiction. Any Residential Unit may also be used as a professional office by a resident thereof provided such professional use does not violate zoning regulations and provided further that the prior consent of the Condominium Board to such professional use is obtained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Sponsor or Sponsor-designee shall have the right, without charge, (i) to maintain general and sales offices in one or more Units or elsewhere on the property, to use one or more Units as models and for other promotional purposes and to erect and maintain signs on the property; (ii) to have its employees, contractors and sales agents present on the property; (iii) to do all things necessary or appropriate, including the use of the Common Elements, to sell or lease Units and to complete construction on the building and to comply with its obligations.
(b) The Common Elements shall be used only for the furnishing of the services and facilities for which they are reasonably suited and which are incident to the use and occupancy of Units.
(c) No nuisances shall be allowed on the property nor shall any use or practice be allowed which is a source of annoyance to its residences or which interferes with the peaceful possession or proper use of the property by its residents.
(d) No improper, offensive, or unlawful use shall be made of the property or any part thereof, and all valid laws, zoning ordinances and regulations of all governmental bodies having jurisdiction thereof shall be observed. Violations of laws, orders, rules, regulations or requirements of any governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof, relating to any portion of the property, shall be eliminated, by and at the sole expense of the Unit Owners, or the Condominium Board, whichever shall have the obligation to maintain or repair such portion of the property.
(e) No portion of the Unit or other Limited Common Elements, if any, appurtenant thereto (other than the entire Unit including the Limited Common Elements, if any, appurtenant thereto) may be rented.
Section 12.
Additions, Alterations or Improvements by Condominium Board:
Subject to the provisions of Section 1, of Article I of these By-Laws, whenever in the judgment of the Condominium Board the Common Elements shall require additions, alterations or improvements (but not maintenance) costing in excess of $5,000.00, and the making of such additions, alterations or improvements shall have been approved by a majority of the Unit Owners, the Condominium Board shall proceed with such additions, alterations or improvements and shall assess all Unit Owners for the cost thereof as a Common Charge. Any additions, alterations or improvements costing $5,000.00 or less may be made by the Condominium Board without approval of the Unit Owners and the cost thereof shall constitute part of the Common Expenses.
Section 13. Additions, Alterations or Improvements by Unit Owners:
No Unit Owner shall make any structural addition, alteration or improvement in or to his or her Unit, or which affects the exterior of the building or the value of other Units, without prior written consent thereto of the Condominium Board. The Condominium Board shall have the obligation to answer in writing any written request by a Unit Owner for approval of a proposed structural addition, alteration or improvement in such Unit Owner's Unit, within thirty (30) days after such request, and failure to do so within the stipulated time shall constitute a consent by the Condominium Board to the proposed addition, alteration or improvement. Any application to any department of the City of New York or to any other governmental authority for a permit to make an addition, alteration or improvement in or to any Unit, shall be executed by the Condominium Board only, without, however, incurring any liability on the part of the Condominium Board to any contractor, subcontractor or material person on account of such addition, alteration or improvement, or to any person having any claim for injury to person or damage to property arising therefrom.
In the event the Condominium Board grants its consent, either affirmatively or by its inaction to any structural addition, alteration or improvement to be made by a Unit Owner, the consent shall provide that any such work shall be at the Unit Owner's sole cost and expense, that work shall be done in accordance with all governmental or quaisi-governmental laws, rules, regulations, codes and ordinances, that all work shall be done by reputable contractors with adequate liability, property damage and worker's compensation insurances (certificate for which shall be delivered to the Condominium Board prior to the commencement of construction), that any additions, alterations or improvements, shall be maintained in their entirety by said Unit Owner who shall also be responsible for any repairs, including structural repairs, to such area in any event, and to the Unit and any Common Elements where such repairs become necessary due to additional stresses caused by the structural alteration, addition or improvement, or due to improper design or construction to the structural alteration, addition or improvement, and such approval shall also provide that the Unit Owner shall reimburse the Condominium Board any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Condominium Board in connection with the granting of such approval and in connection with any services provided to such alteration, addition or improvement; such expenses may include, but shall not be limited to, any fees of an attorney and/or fees of an architect consulted in connection with any request by a Unit Owner for approval of such work.
The provisions of this Section 13 which require the consent of the Condominium Board in connection with a structural addition, alteration or improvement shall not apply to Units owned by the Sponsor or its designee. All other provisions of this Section 13 shall apply to all Units.
Non-structural alterations and improvements to Units that do not affect the exterior of the building or the value of other Units may be made without the prior approval of the Condominium Board.
Section 14.
Use of Common Elements and Facilities:
A Unit Owner shall not place or cause to be placed in the lobby, public halls, stairways or other common areas or common facilities, any furniture, packages or objects of any kind. The public halls and stairways shall be used for no purpose other than for normal transit through them. The Sponsor and any Sponsor-designee shall have the right to use of the Common Elements, without charge, for the purposes set forth in Section 11 of this Article VI.
Section 15.
Right of Access:
A Unit Owner shall grant a right of access to his or her Unit, to the Manager and/or any other person authorized by the Condominium Board, the Manager or the Managing Agent, for the purpose of making inspections or for the purpose of correcting any condition originating in his or her Unit and threatening another Unit or a Common Element, or for the purpose of performing installations, alterations or repairs to the mechanical or electrical services or other Common Elements in his or her Unit or elsewhere in the building in which the Unit is located, provided that requests for entry are made in advance and that any such entry is at a time reasonably convenient to the Unit Owner. In case of an emergency, such right of entry shall be immediate, whether the Unit Owner is present at the time or not. In the event of the exercise of the right of access provided in this Section 15, any costs for repairs shall be borne in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 of this Article VI. Each Unit Owner will be required to give a copy of his or her keys to his or her Unit to the President of the Condominium Board, who shall designate an authorized person or persons to keep the keys and use them in case of an emergency.
Section 16.
Rules of Conduct:
Rules and regulations concerning the use of the Units and the Common Elements may be promulgated and amended by the Condominium Board.
A majority vote of Unit Owners at a meeting may overrule the Condominium Board. Copies of such rules and regulations shall be furnished by the Condominium Board to each Unit Owner prior to the time when the same shall become effective. Initial rules and regulations, which shall be effective until amended by the Condominium Board are annexed hereto and made a part hereof as Schedule A.
Section 17.
Water Charges and Sewer Rents:
Water shall be supplied to all of the Units and the Common Elements through one or more building meters, and the Condominium Board shall pay, as a Common Expense, all charges for water consumed on the property and in the Units, together with all related sewer rents arising therefrom, promptly after the bills for the same shall have been rendered. In the event of a proposed sale of a Unit by the Owner thereof, the Condominium Board, on request of the selling Unit Owner, shall execute and deliver to the purchaser of such Unit or to the purchaser's title insurance company, a letter agreeing to pay all charges for water and sewer rents affecting the property as of the date of closing of title to such Unit promptly after such charges shall have been billed.
Section 18.
Electricity:
Electricity shall be supplied by the public utility company serving the area directly to each Unit through separate meters and each Unit Owner shall be required to pay the bills for electricity consumed or used in his or her Unit. The electricity serving the Common Elements shall be metered by one or more meters, and the Condominium Board shall pay the bills for such consumption as a Common Expense.
ARTICLE VII
Mortgages
Section 1.
Notice to Condominium Board:
A Unit Owner who mortgages his or her Unit shall notify the Condominium Board of the name and address of his or her mortgagee and shall file a confirmed copy of the note and mortgage with the Condominium Board; the Condominium Board shall maintain such information in a book entitled "Mortgages of Units".
Section 2.
Notice of Unpaid Common Charges:
The Condominium Board, when so requested in writing by a mortgagee of a Unit, shall promptly notify any mortgagee of a Unit of such Unit Owner's default, including non-payment of Common Charges, in the obligations of such Unit Owner under the Declaration, By-Laws, Rules and Regulations, as the same are amended from time to time, or in any order of the Condominium Board issued with respect thereto.
Section 3.
Notice of Default:
The Condominium Board, when giving notice to a Unit Owner of a default in paying Common Charges or other default, shall send a copy of such notice to each holder of a mortgage covering such Unit whose name and address has heretofore been furnished to the Condominium Board.
Section 4.
Examination of Books:
Each Unit Owner and each mortgagee of a Unit shall be permitted to examine the books of account of the Condominium at reasonable times, on business days.
Section 5.
Annual Reports
The annual report of receipts and expenditures certified by an independent Certified Public Accountant shall be submitted to all mortgagees, as well as all insurers or guarantors thereof who request it.
ARTICLE VIII
Sales, Leases and Mortgages of Units
Section 1.
Sales and Leases:
No Unit Owner other than the Sponsor or Sponsor-designee may sell or lease his or her Unit or any interest therein except by complying with the following provisions: Any Unit Owner who receives a bona fide offer for the sale of his or her Unit together with: (i) the undivided interest of the Common Elements and any limited Common Elements appurtenant thereto; (ii) the interest of such Unit Owner in any Units theretofore acquired by the Condominium Board, or its designee, on behalf of all Unit Owners, or the proceeds of the sale or lease thereof, if any; (iii) the interest of such Unit Owner in any other assets of the Condominium, as defined in the Declaration (hereinafter collectively called the "Appurtenant Interests"), or a bona fide offer for a lease of his or her Unit (hereinafter called an "Outsider Offer"), which he or she intends to accept, shall give notice by certified or registered mail to the Condominium Board of such offer and of such intention, the name and address of the proposed purchaser of the Unit, the terms of the proposed transaction and such other information as the Condominium Board may reasonably require, and shall offer to sell such Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, or to lease such Unit, to the Condominium Board, or its designee, corporate or otherwise, on behalf of the Owners of all other Units, on the same terms and conditions as contained in such outside offer. The giving of such notice shall constitute a warranty and representation by the Unit Owner who has received such offer, to the Condominium Board on behalf of the other Unit Owners, that such Unit Owner believes the outside offer to be bona fide in all respects. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice, the Condominium Board may elect, by notice given within five (5) days after making such election, and in any event, within said thirty (30) day period, to such Unit Owner, by certified or registered mail, to purchase such Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, or to lease such Unit, as the case may be (or to cause the same to be purchased or leased by its designee, corporate or otherwise), on behalf of all other Unit Owners, on the same terms and conditions as contained in the outside offer and as stated in the notice from the offering Unit Owner.
In the event the Condominium Board shall elect to purchase such Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, or to lease such Unit, or to cause the same to be purchased or leased by its designee, corporate or otherwise, title shall close or a lease shall be executed at the office of the attorneys for the Condominium in accordance with the terms of such offer but in no event less than forty-five (45) days after the giving of notice by the Condominium Board of its election to accept such offer. At the closing, the Unit Owner, if such Unit together with the Appurtenant Interests is to be sold, shall convey the same to the Condominium Board, or to its designee, on behalf of all other Unit Owners, by deed in the form required by Section 339-0 of the Real Property Law of the State of New York, with all transfer stamps affixed, and shall pay all other taxes arising out of such sale. In the event such Unit is to be leased, the offering Unit Owner shall execute and deliver to the Condominium Board, or to its designee, a lease between the offering Unit Owner, as landlord, and the Condominium Board, or its designee, as tenant, covering such Unit, for the rental and term contained in such outside offer.
In the event the Condominium Board or its designee fails to notify the offering Unit Owner of its decision to accept such offer within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice as aforesaid or notify the offering Unit Owner within said period of its decision not to accept such offer, the offering Unit Owner shall be free to contract to sell such Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, or to lease such Unit, as the case may be, within thirty (30) days after the expiration of the period in which the Condominium Board or its designee might have accepted such offer, to the outside offeror, on the terms and conditions set forth in the notice from the offering Unit Owner to the Condominium Board of such outside offer. Any such deed to any outside offeror shall provide that acceptance thereof by the grantee shall constitute an assumption of the provisions of the Declaration, the By-Laws and the Rules and Regulations, as the same may be amended from time to time. Any such lease shall be consistent with these By-Laws and shall provide that it may not be modified, amended, extended or assigned without the prior consent in writing of the Condominium Board, and that the tenant shall not sublet the demised premises, or any part thereof, without the prior consent in writing of the Condominium Board, and that the Condominium Board shall have power to terminate such lease and/or bring summary proceedings to evict the tenant in the name of the landlord thereunder, in the event of default by the tenant in the performance of such lease. Except as hereinbefore set forth, the form of any such lease for Residential Units shall be in a form approved by the Condominium Board. In the event the offering Unit Owner shall not, within such thirty (30) day period, contract to sell such Unit to the outside offeror on the terms and conditions contained in the outside offer, or if the Unit Owner shall so contract to sell or lease his or her Unit within such thirty (30) day period, but such sale or lease shall not be consummated pursuant to the terms of such contract, then should such offering Unit Owner thereafter elect to sell such Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, or to lease such Unit, as the case may be, to the same or another outside offeror on the same or other terms and conditions, the offering Unit Owner shall be required to again comply with all of the terms and provisions of this Section 1 of this Article VIII.
Any purported sale or lease of a Unit in violation of this section shall be voidable at the election of the Condominium Board.
Section 2. Consent of Unit Owners to Purchase or Lease of Units by Condominium Board:
The Condominium Board shall not exercise any option herein above set forth to purchase or lease any Unit without the prior approval of a majority of the Unit Owners and the unanimous consent of Holders of Unsold Units.
Section 3.
No Severance of Ownership:
No Unit Owner shall execute any deed, mortgage, or other instrument conveying or mortgaging title to his or her Unit without including therein the Appurtenant Interests, it being the intention hereof to prevent any severance of such combined ownership. Any such deed, mortgage, or other instrument purporting to affect one or more of such interests, without including all such interests, shall be deemed and taken to include the interest or interests so omitted, even though the latter shall not be expressly mentioned or described therein. No part of the Appurtenant Interests of any Unit may be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of, except as part of a sale, transfer or other disposition of the Unit to which such interest or interests are appurtenant, or as part of a sale, transfer or other disposition of such part of the Appurtenant Interests of all Units.
Section 4. Release by Condominium Board of Right of First Refusal:
The right of first refusal contained in Section 1 of this Article VIII may be released or waived by the Condominium Board, in which event, the Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, may be sold, conveyed, or leased, free and clear of the provisions of such section.
Section 5.
Certificate of Termination of Right of First Refusal:
A certificate, executed and acknowledged by the Secretary of the Condominium, stating that the provisions of Section 1 of this Article VIII have been met by a Unit Owner, or have been duly waived by the Condominium Board and the rights of the Condominium Board thereunder have terminated, shall be conclusive upon the Condominium Board in favor of all persons who rely thereon in good faith. Such certificates shall be furnished to any Unit Owner who has in fact complied with the provisions of Section 1 of this Article VIII or in respect to whom the provisions of such section have been waived, upon request.
Section 6. Financing of Purchase of Units by Condominium Board:
Acquisition or lease of Units by the Condominium Board, or its designee, on behalf of all Unit Owners, may be made from the working capital and Common Charges in the possession of the Condominium Board, or, if such funds are insufficient, the Condominium Board may levy an assessment against each Unit Owner, other than the offering Unit Owner, in proportion to his or her ownership in the Common Elements, as a Common Charge, which assessment shall be enforceable in the same manner as provided in Section 6 and 7 of Article VI, or, the Condominium Board, in its discretion, may borrow money to finance the acquisition or lease of such Unit, provided, however, that no financing may be secured by an encumbrance or hypothecation of any property other than the Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, so to be acquired by the Condominium Board. Notwithstanding the above, no assessment may be levied under this Section 6 against any motgagee who has acquired title to a Unit, whether by foreclosure or deed in lieu hereof.
Section 7.
Exceptions:
The provisions of Section 1 of this Article VIII shall not apply in respect to any sale or conveyance or lease by a Unit Owner of his or her Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, to his or her spouse or to any of his or her children, or to his or her parent or parents, or for his or her brothers or sisters, or any one or more of them, or to any Unit owned by the Sponsor or Sponsor-designee, or to the acquisition or sale of any Unit, together with the Appurtenant Interests, by a mortgagee herein authorized who shall acquire title to such Unit by foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure. However, the provisions of this section shall apply with respect to any purchase of a Unit from a mortgagee.
Section 8.
Gifts and Devises, etc.:
Any Unit Owner shall be free to convey or transfer his or her Unit by gift or to devise his or her Unit by will, or to pass the same by intestacy, without restriction.
Section 9.
Waiver of Right of Partition with Respect to Such Units as are Acquired by the Condominium Board or its Designee, on Behalf of All Unit Owners as Tenants in Common:
In the event that a Unit shall be acquired by the Condominium Board, or its designee, on behalf of all Unit Owners as tenants in common, all such Unit Owners shall be deemed to have waived all rights of partition with respect to such Unit. Thus, no Unit Owner shall have the right to seek judicial sale of a Unit acquired by the Condominium Board through an action in partition.
Section 10.
Payment of Common Charges and Assessments:
No Unit Owner shall be permitted to convey, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, sell or lease his or her Unit unless and until he or she shall have paid in full to the Condominium Board all unpaid Common Charges and assessments theretofore assessed by the Condominium Board against his or her Unit and until he or she shall have satisfied all unpaid liens against such Unit, except permitted mortgages.
Section 11.
Mortgage of Units:
No Residential Unit or Parking Space Owner shall mortgage his or her Unit, except by a first and/or second mortgage made to a bank, trust company, insurance company, federal savings and loan association, pension fund or other institutional lender or a purchase money mortgage made to the Sponsor, or to the seller of the Unit. Any such mortgage shall be substantially in the form on file with the Condominium Board, except for such changes or additions as may be required in order to permit the particular institutional lender to make the mortgage loan, or to the extent permitted by the Condominium Board. A mortgage may be made to a reputable private lender, other than a lender as above described, provided the same is approved in writing by either the Sponsor, prior to the Sponsor's relinquishing control of the Condominium Board, or the Condominium Board, subsequent to the release of control by the Sponsor or the Condominium Board as the case may be. Prior to or simultaneously with the closing of any mortgage, the Unit Owner must satisfy all arrearages for unpaid Common Charges or assessments and discharge any liens therefore.
ARTICLE IX
Condemnation and Termination
Section 1.
Condemnation:
In the event of a taking in condemnation or by eminent domain of part or all of the Common Elements, the award made for such taking shall be payable to the Condominium Board, if such award amounts to $50,000.00 or less, and to the Insurance Trustee if such award amounts to more than $50,000.00. If seventy-five (75%) percent or more of the Unit Owners duly and promptly approve the repair and restoration of such Common Elements, the Condominium Board or the Insurance Trustee, as the case may be, shall arrange for the repair and restoration of such Common Elements, and the Condominium Board or the Insurance Trustee, as the case may be, shall disburse the proceeds of such award to the contractors engaged in such repair and restoration in appropriate progress payments. In the event that seventy-five (75%) percent or more of the Unit Owners do not duly and promptly approve the repair and restoration of such Common Elements, the Condominium Board shall disburse the net proceeds of such award in the same manner as they are required to distribute insurance proceeds where there is no repair or restoration of the damage, as provided in Section 3 of Article VI of these By-Laws. As used in this Section, the words "promptly approve" shall mean not more than sixty (60) days from the date of such taking.
Section 2.
Termination:
The Condominium may be terminated by casualty loss, condemnation or eminent domain, in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws, or by withdrawing the property from the provisions of the New Yok Condominium Act if authorized by an affirmative vote of Unit Owners who own not less than eighty (80%) percent in number and in Common Interest of the Units. Sponsor or its designees will not vote its interests appurtenant to any Unsold Units for such withdrawal unless at least eighty (80%) percent in number and in Common Interest of all other Unit Owners have elected for such withdrawal, in which event the Sponsor may choose to vote in favor of or against such withdrawal. In the event said withdrawal is authorized as aforesaid, the property shall be subject to an action for partition by any Unit Owner or lienor as if owned in common, in which event the net proceeds of sale shall be divided among all the Unit Owners in proportion to their respective Common Interests. However, no payment shall be made to a Unit Owner until all liens to which his or her Unit are subject are paid off.
ARTICLE X
Records
Section 1.
Invalidity:
The invalidity of any part of these By-Laws shall not impair or affect in any manner the validity, enforceability or effect of the balance of these By-Laws.
Section 2.
Captions:
The captions herein are inserted only as a matter of convenience and/or reference, and in no way define, limit or describe the scope of these By-Laws, or the intent of any provision thereof.
Section 3.
Gender:
The use of the masculine gender in these By-Laws shall be deemed to include the feminine gender, and the use of the singular shall be deemed to include the plural, whenever the context so requires.
Section 4.
Waiver:
No restriction, condition, obligation, or provision contained in these By-Laws shall be deemed to have been abrogated or waived by reason of any failure to enforce the same, irrespective of the number of violations or breaches thereof which may occur.
Section 5.
Insurance Trustee:
The Insurance Trustee, if selected, shall be a bank, trust company or savings and loan association in the State of New York, designated by the Condominium Board (with the approval of the holders of five (5) or more Unit first mortgages). In the event that the Insurance Trustee shall resign, the new Insurance Trustee shall also be a bank, trust company or savings and loan association in the State of New York, designated by the Condominium Board (with the approval of the holders of five (5) or more Unit first mortgagees). The Condominium Board shall pay the fees and disbursements of any Insurance Trustee and such fees and disbursements shall constitute a Common Expense of the Condominium.
Section 6.
Definition of "Mortgagee":
As used in these By-Laws, the term "mortgagee" or "holder of a first mortgage" shall include the holder of any construction loan mortgage which shall be a lien on a Unit.
ARTICLE XI
Amendments to the By-Laws
Section 1.
Amendment to By-Laws:
These By-Laws may be modified or amended by the vote of sixty-six and two-thirds (66-2/3%) percent in number and in Common Interest of all Unit Owners at a meeting of Unit Owners duly held for such purpose.
For as long as the Sponsor remains the Owner of one or more Units, these By-Laws, including the Rules and Regulations of the Condominium attached hereto, may not be amended or modified in any way so as to adversely affect Sponsor without Sponsor's prior written consent.
ARTICLE XII
Conflicts
Section 1.
Conflicts:
These By-Laws are set forth to comply with the requirements of Article 9-B of the Real Property Law of the State of New York. In case any of these By-Laws conflict with the provisions of said statute or Declaration, the provisions of said statute or Declaration, as the case may be, shall control.
